PORT-7728 | Add guide to the OpenCost integration showing how to bring cost information from AWS (#1125)
port-labs/port-docs: docs/build-your-software-catalog/sync-data-to-catalog/cloud-cost/opencost.md

# OpenCost

Our OpenCost integration allows you to import `cost` and `cloudCost` from your OpenCost instance into Port, according to your mapping and definition.

## Common use cases

- Map your monitored Kubernetes resources and cost allocations in OpenCost.

> - Map you cost allocations from different providers from OpenCost.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Map you cost allocations from different cloud providers from OpenCost.
```

> - Map you cost allocations from different cloud providers from OpenCost.

Reviewer 2: Map your*

> - Map you cost allocations from different cloud providers from OpenCost.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Map your cost allocations from different cloud providers from OpenCost.
```

:::tip Supported resources
The following resources can be used to map data from OpenCost, it is possible to reference any field that appears in the API responses linked below for the mapping configuration.

- [`Cost`](https://www.opencost.io/docs/integrations/api-examples#allocation-examples)

> - [`CloudCost](https://www.opencost.io/docs/integrations/api-examples#cloudcost-examples)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`Cloud Cost`](https://www.opencost.io/docs/integrations/api-examples#cloudcost-examples)
```

> - [`CloudCost](https://www.opencost.io/docs/integrations/api-examples#cloudcost-examples)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [`Cloud Cost](https://www.opencost.io/docs/integrations/api-examples#cloudcost-examples)
```

      port:
  ```

>   - **window** - Duration of time over which to query. Accepts: words like `today`, `week`, `month`, `yesterday`, `lastweek`, `lastmonth`; durations like `30m`, `12h`, `7d`; RFC3339 date pairs like `2021-01-02T15:04:05Z,2021-02-02T15:04:05Z`; Unix timestamps like `1578002645,1580681045`.If not specified, the default value is `"today"`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - **window** - Duration of time over which to query. Accepts words like: `today`, `week`, `month`, `yesterday`, `lastweek`, `lastmonth`; durations like `30m`, `12h`, `7d`; RFC3339 date pairs like `2021-01-02T15:04:05Z,2021-02-02T15:04:05Z`; Unix timestamps like `1578002645,1580681045`. If not specified, the default value is `"today"`
```

</details>

### CloudCost

<details>
<summary><b>Cost blueprint (click to expand)</b></summary>

```json showLineNumbers
{
    "identifier": "openCostCloudcost",

>     "description": "This blueprint represents an instance of OpenCost CloudCost data",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "description": "This blueprint represents cloud cost allocations from your OpenCost instance",
```
This blueprint represents cloud cost allocations from your OpenCost instance

          "type": "number"
        }
      },
      "required": []
    },
    "calculationProperties": {},
    "mirrorProperties": {},
    "relations": {}
  }
```

</details>

<details>
<summary><b>Integration Configuration (click to expand)</b></summary>

```yaml showLineNumbers
createMissingRelatedEntities: true
deleteDependentEntities: true
resources:
  - kind: cloudcost
    selector:
      query: "true"
      cloudcostAggregate: '"provider"'
      window: '"7d"'
      accumulate: '"all"'
    port:
      entity:
        mappings:
          blueprint: '"openCostCloudcost"'
          identifier: .properties.provider + "-" + .window.start + "-" + .window.end
          title: .properties.provider + "-" + .window.start + "-" + .window.end
          properties:
            startDate: .window.start
            endDate: .window.end
            listCost: .listCost.cost
            netCost: .netCost.cost
            amortizedNetCost: .amortizedNetCost.cost
            invoicedCost: .invoicedCost.cost
            amortizedCost: .amortizedCost.cost

```

</details>

#### Selector Parameters
The following parameters under the `selector` key can be used to manipulate which data is ingested:

> - **window** - Duration of time over which to query. Accepts: words like `today`, `week`, `month`, `yesterday`, `lastweek`, `lastmonth`; durations like `30m`, `12h`, `7d`; RFC3339 date pairs like `2021-01-02T15:04:05Z,2021-02-02T15:04:05Z`; Unix timestamps like `1578002645,1580681045`. If not specified, the default value is `"today"`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **window** - Duration of time over which to query. Accepts words like: `today`, `week`, `month`, `yesterday`, `lastweek`, `lastmonth`; durations like `30m`, `12h`, `7d`; RFC3339 date pairs like `2021-01-02T15:04:05Z,2021-02-02T15:04:05Z`; Unix timestamps like `1578002645,1580681045`. If not specified, the default value is `"today"`
```
